# Getting Started

Burn is a deep learning framework in the Rust programming language. Therefore, it goes without
saying that one must understand the basic notions of Rust. Reading the first chapters of the
[Rust Book](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/) is recommended, but don't worry if you're just starting
out. We'll try to provide as much context and reference to external resources when required. Just
look out for the **🦀 Rust Note** indicators.

## Installing Rust

For installation instructions, please refer to the
[installation page](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch01-01-installation.html). It explains in
details the most convenient way for you to install Rust on your computer, which is the very first
thing to do to start using Burn.

## Creating a Burn application

Once Rust is correctly installed, create a new Rust application by using Rust's build system and
package manager Cargo. It is automatically installed with Rust.

<details>
<summary><strong>🦀 Cargo Cheat Sheet</strong></summary>

[Cargo](https://doc.rust-lang.org/cargo/) is a very useful tool to manage Rust projects because it
handles a lot of tasks. More precisely, it is used to compile your code, download the
libraries/packages your code depends on, and build said libraries.

Below is a quick cheat sheet of the main `cargo` commands you might use throughout this guide.

| Command             | Description                                                                                  |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `cargo new` _path_  | Create a new Cargo package in the given directory.                                           |
| `cargo add` _crate_ | Add dependencies to the Cargo.toml manifest file.                                            |
| `cargo build`       | Compile the local package and all of its dependencies (in debug mode, use `-r` for release). |
| `cargo check`       | Check the local package for compilation errors (much faster).                                |
| `cargo run`         | Run the local package binary.                                                                |

For more information, check out
[Hello, Cargo!](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch01-03-hello-cargo.html) in the Rust Book.

</details><br>

In the directory of your choice, run the following:

```console
cargo new my_burn_app
```

This will initialize the `my_burn_app` project directory with a `Cargo.toml` file and a `src`
directory with an auto-generated `main.rs` file inside. Head inside the directory to check:

```console
cd my_burn_app
```

Then, add Burn as a dependency:

```console
cargo add burn --features wgpu
```

Finally, compile the local package by executing the following:

```console
cargo build
```

That's it, you're ready to start! You have a project configured with Burn and the WGPU backend,
which allows to execute low-level operations on any platform using the GPU.

## Writing a code snippet

The `src/main.rs` was automatically generated by Cargo, so let's replace its content with the
following:

```rust, ignore
use burn::tensor::Tensor;
use burn::backend::Wgpu;

// Type alias for the backend to use.
type Backend = Wgpu;

fn main() {
    let device = Default::default();
    // Creation of two tensors, the first with explicit values and the second one with ones, with the same shape as the first
    let tensor_1 = Tensor::<Backend, 2>::from_data([[2., 3.], [4., 5.]], &device);
    let tensor_2 = Tensor::<Backend, 2>::ones_like(&tensor_1);

    // Print the element-wise addition (done with the WGPU backend) of the two tensors.
    println!("{}", tensor_1 + tensor_2);
}
```

<details>
<summary><strong>🦀 Use Declarations</strong></summary>

To bring any of the Burn module or item into scope, a `use` declaration is added.

In the example above, we wanted bring the `Tensor` struct and `Wgpu` backend into scope with the
following:

```rust, ignore
use burn::tensor::Tensor;
use burn::backend::Wgpu;
```

This is pretty self-explanatory in this case. But, the same declaration could be written as a
shortcut to simultaneously binding of multiple paths with a common prefix:

```rust, ignore
use burn::{tensor::Tensor, backend::backend::Wgpu};
```

In this example, the common prefix is pretty short and there are only two items to bind locally.
Therefore, the first usage with two `use` declarations might be preferred. But know that both
examples are valid. For more details on the `use` keyword, take a look at
[this section](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch07-04-bringing-paths-into-scope-with-the-use-keyword.html)
of the Rust Book or the
[Rust reference](https://doc.rust-lang.org/reference/items/use-declarations.html).

</details><br>

<details>
<summary><strong>🦀 Generic Data Types</strong></summary>

If you're new to Rust, you're probably wondering why we had to use `Tensor::<Backend, 2>::...`.
That's because the `Tensor` struct is [generic](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch10-01-syntax.html)
over multiple concrete data types. More specifically, a `Tensor` can be defined using three generic
parameters:  the backend, the number of dimensions (rank) and the data type (defaults to `Float`).
Here, we only specify the backend and number of dimensions since a `Float` tensor is used by default.
For more details on the `Tensor` struct, take a look at [this section](./building-blocks/tensor.md).

Most of the time when generics are involved, the compiler can infer the generic parameters
automatically. In this case, the compiler needs a little help. This can usually be done in one of
two ways: providing a type annotation or binding the gereneric parameter via the _turbofish_ `::<>`
syntax. In the example above we used the so-called _turbofish_ syntax, but we could have used type
annotations instead like this:

```rust, ignore
let tensor_1: Tensor<Backend, 2> = Tensor::from_data([[2., 3.], [4., 5.]]);
let tensor_2 = Tensor::ones_like(&tensor_1);
```

You probably noticed that we provided a type annotation for the first tensor only and yet this example
still works.
That's because the compiler (correctly) inferred that `tensor_2` had the same generic parameters.
The same could have been done in the original example, but specifying the parameters for both is
more explicit.

</details><br>

By running `cargo run`, you should now see the result of the addition:

```console
Tensor {
  data:
[[3.0, 4.0],
 [5.0, 6.0]],
  shape:  [2, 2],
  device:  BestAvailable,
  backend:  "wgpu",
  kind:  "Float",
  dtype:  "f32",
}
```

While the previous example is somewhat trivial, the upcoming
basic workflow section will walk you through a much more relevant example for
deep learning applications.

## Using `prelude`

Burn comes with a variety of things in its core library.
When creating a new model or using an existing one for inference,
you may need to import every single component you used, which could be a little verbose.

To address it, a `prelude` module is provided, allowing you to easily import commonly used structs and macros as a group:

```rust, ignore
use burn::prelude::*;
```

which is equal to:

```rust, ignore
use burn::{
    config::Config,
    module::Module,
    nn,
    tensor::{
        backend::Backend, Bool, Data, Device, ElementConversion, Float, Int, Shape, Tensor,
    },
};
```

<div class="warning">

For the sake of simplicity, the subsequent chapters of this book will all use this form of importing except in the [Building Blocks](./building-blocks) chapter, as explicit importing aids users in grasping the usage of particular structures and macros.

</div>

## Explore examples

In the [next chapter](./basic-workflow) you'll have the opportunity to implement the whole Burn
`guide` example yourself in a step by step manner.

Many additional Burn examples are available in the
[examples](https://github.com/tracel-ai/burn/tree/main/examples) directory. Burn examples are
organized as library crates with one or more examples that are executable binaries. An example
can then be executed using the following cargo command line in the root of the Burn repository:

```bash
cargo run --example <example name>
```

To learn more about crates and examples, read the Rust section below.

<details>
<summary><strong>🦀 About Rust crates</strong></summary>

Each Burn example is a **package** which are subdirectories of the `examples` directory. A package
is composed of one or more **crates**.

A package is a bundle of one or more crates that provides a set of functionality. A package
contains a `Cargo.toml` file that describes how to build those crates.

A crate is a compilation unit in Rust. It could be a single file, but it is often easier to
split up crates into multiple **modules**.

A module lets us organize code within a crate for readability and easy reuse. Modules also allow
us to control the _privacy_ of items. For instance the `pub(crate)` keyword is employed to make
a module publicly available inside the crate. In the snippet below there are four modules declared,
two of them are public and visible to the users of the crates, one of them is public inside the crate
only and crate users cannot see it, at last one is private when there is no keyword.
These modules can be single files or a directory with a `mod.rs` file inside.

```rust, ignore
pub mod data;
pub mod inference;
pub(crate) mod model;
mod training;
```

A crate can come in one of two forms: a **binary crate** or a **library crate**. When compiling a crate,
the compiler first looks in the crate root file (`src/lib.rs` for a library crate and `src/main.rs`
for a binary crate). Any module declared in the crate root file will be inserted in the crate for
compilation.

All Burn examples are library crates and they can contain one or more executable examples that
uses the library. We even have some Burn examples that uses the library crate of other examples.

The examples are unique files under the `examples` directory. Each file produces an executable file
with the same name. Each example can then be executed with `cargo run --example <executable name>`.

Below is an file tree of a typical Burn example package:

```
examples/burn-example
├── Cargo.toml
├── examples
│   ├── example1.rs
│   ├── example2.rs
│   └── ...
└── src
    ├── lib.rs
    ├── module1.rs
    ├── module2.rs
    └── ...
```

</details><br>

For more information on each example, see their respective `README.md` file.

<div class="warning">

Note that some examples use the
[`datasets` library by HuggingFace](https://huggingface.co/docs/datasets/index) to download the
datasets required in the examples. This is a Python library, which means that you will need to
install Python before running these examples. This requirement will be clearly indicated in the
example's README when applicable.

</div>

